how many G's do you pull in a lift or an
elevator as Americans call it well to
find out I'm on the 39th floor of Canary
Wharf
one of the tallest buildings in London
our London with a kitchen scale of a
kilogram of sugar first things first
kilogram is a measure of mass nothing
white that's important if we're in
zero-g right now this would still mask
one kilogram and I'm moving it would
take exactly the same amount of effort
weight is the force that you experience
due to gravity now technically it should
be measured in Newtons but we use
kilograms on a short hand because it's
easier and our gravity doesn't really
change that much so inside this scale is
a little spring that gets compressed by
the stuff on top of it the heavier the
stuff the more force on the spring to
compress it the higher the reading on
the scale the force that compresses that
spring is called the normal force
everything including this building wants
to fall through the earth but the earth
pushes back with an equal and opposite
force the normal force that push from
the earth gets passed on into the
supports that's building into the core
into my legs into my arms and onto this
scale we experience that force as 1g now
if you're in freefall you don't have a
force pushing back on you
so experience zero-g and if you're a
lift and is accelerating downwards the
force from the acceleration works
against the normal force and you get
lighter so in this fast lift as it XL
rates down this one kilo gram a flower
appears to be about nine hundred and
twenty grams that's what we get out of
it that means I'm calling about naught
point 9g I weight 10% less
I jumped ten percent higher here's the
important thing the lift is now stop
accelerating we're at speed it's back to
1g it doesn't matter how fast I'm going
through plunging in a thousand miles an
hour
I'm not accelerating I'm experiencing 1
G that's the reason why you're not
constantly pushed back in your seat when
you're in a car or a train and now no a
slowing down so sine Gayle would pull
about 1.1 G we get 1.1 kilograms on the
scale the force of the lick is being
added to the normal force which means
we're pulling about nine point one G's
in this particular lift this building
wants to fall through the earth the
building pushes back when
ah well ah no Christmas booty